# Render as you fetch

## Background

This one's a bit of a mind bender, but
[here's the ultimate goal we're looking for](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/1191922859762843649).

We wont get the whole way there in this exercise, but we'll get a bunch of the
way there. Then in exercise 04 we can finish it up. So fast ⚡

The idea here is: get the data **as soon as you have the information you need**
for the data. This sounds obvious, but if you think about it, how often do you
have a component that requests data once it's been mounted. There's a few
milliseconds between the time you click "go" and the time that component is
mounted... Unless that component's code is **lazy-loaded**. In which case,
there's a lot more time involved (first load the code, then parse the code, then
run the code, then render the component, and finally make the request) and your
users are hanging around waiting while they could be making requests for the
data they need.

"Render as you fetch" is intended to fix this problem because you can make the
request for the code and the data at the same time.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/02.js)
- [Final](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.js)

In this one, we now have a form that allows us to choose a pokemon by any name.
As soon as the user hits "submit", we pass the `pokemonName` to our
`PokemonInfo` component which makes the request to get the pokemon data (using
`useEffect`).

For the exercise, you need to refactor this from `useEffect` to Suspense. You'll
need to add the `ErrorBoundary` and `Suspense` components to the `PokemonInfo`
component, and you'll pass the pokemon resource to `PokemonInfoView` which will
call `.read()` on the resource. The initial `.read()` call will trigger the
component to suspend and display the fallback state. When the promise resolves,
React will re-render our components and we'll be able to display the pokemon.

> The real important parts of the render-as-you-fetch approach comes in the
> extra credit, but changing things to this will help a lot to get us going.

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 Suspense and Error Boundary positioning

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/02.extra-1.js)

You don't have to wrap the suspending component in a suspense and error boundary
directly. There can be many layers of nesting and it'll still work. But there's
some semantically important differences that I want you to learn about so go
ahead and try to play around with wrapping more of your elements in these
boundaries and see what changes with the user experience.

💰 if that's confusing, this is all we're talking about:

```javascript
<div>
  <div>Hello there</div>
  <PokemonErrorBoundary>
    <React.Suspense fallback={<div>loading</div>}>
      <SuspendingComponent />
    </React.Suspense>
  </PokemonErrorBoundary>
</div>
```

vs this:

```javascript
<PokemonErrorBoundary>
  <React.Suspense fallback={<div>loading</div>}>
    <div>
      <div>Hello there</div>
      <SuspendingComponent />
    </div>
  </React.Suspense>
</PokemonErrorBoundary>
```

## Notes

So far, we've benefitted from an API standpoint. I think the Suspense solution
is simpler than the `useEffect` version. However, we've not gotten the "Render
as you fetch" benefit when it comes to asynchronously loading the code we need.

The examples in the `./src/examples/fetch-approaches` directory will allow you
to compare the different approaches.

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

<div>
<span>After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then </span>
<a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Suspense%20%F0%9F%94%80&e=02%3A%20Render%20as%20you%20fetch&em=">
  fill out the elaboration and feedback form.
</a>
</div>
