# useTransition for improved loading states

## Background

When a component suspends, it's literally telling React: "Don't render any
updates at all from the suspense component on down until I'm ready to roll."
Now, eventually React will give up on the suspending component and render your
fallback instead. But there's that brief amount of time that your app will
appear to be unresponsive to the user and it'd be great if we could avoid that.

Also, you're probably seeing an error in your console right about now and it'd
be cool to make that go away 😉

The API for this is a hook called `useTransition`. Here's what that looks like:

```javascript
const SUSPENSE_CONFIG = {timeoutMs: 4000}

function Component() {
  const [startTransition, isPending] = React.useTransition(SUSPENSE_CONFIG)
  // etc...

  function handleClick() {
    // do something that triggers some interim state change we want to
    // happen before suspending starts
    startTransition(() => {
      // do something that triggers a suspending component to render
    })
  }

  // if needed, you can use the `isPending` boolean to display a loading spinner
  // or similar
}
```

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/03.js)
- [Final](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.js)

In this exercise, we'll wrap the existing call to set the resource in a
transition so the input value gets updated when you select a pokemon. We'll also
make the pokemon information area "appear stale" by making it slightly
transparent if `isPending` is true.

This is a good one to play around with setting the `delay` argument to
`fetchPokemon` a bit.

📣 **BREAKING CHANGE ALERT:** The version of React in this project works like it
does in the recorded videos. However in the future experimental builds of React,
the `SUSPENSE_CONFIG` option to `useTransition` has been completely removed.
Read more about this here: https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/19703

Here's your reminder that you're learning about experimental software which can
change at any moment without notice 😅

## Extra Credit

### 1. 💯 use css transitions

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-1.js)

If the user has a really fast connection, then they'll see a "flash of loading
content" which isn't a great experience. To combat this, I've written a css rule
that has a transition delay for the opacity to not become transparent for 300
milliseconds. That way if the user's on a fast connection, they wont see the
loading state.

Instead of using inline styles, dynamically apply the class name
`pokemon-loading` if `isPending` is true to take advantage of this. The styles
are in `src/styles.css` if you want to take a look.

### 2. 💯 avoid flash of loading content

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-2.js)

**EXPERIMENTAL AND AWKWARD API AHEAD**

Our previous improvement is great. We're not showing the loading state for 300ms
so we're pretty good. But what if the request takes 350ms? Then we're right back
where we started! The user will see a flash of loading state for 50ms.

What we really need is a way to say: "Hey React, if this transition takes 300ms,
then I want you to keep the transition state around for at least 500ms total no
matter what."

Now, this API is a little strange, it's not documented (so it's pretty likely to
change). In my testing of it, it was kind of inconsistent, so I think it may be
buggy. But to make this happen, you can add the following properties to your
`SUSPENSE_CONFIG`:

- `busyDelayMs`: Set this to the time of our CSS transition. This is the part
  that says "if the transition takes X amount of time"
- `busyMinDurationMs`: Set this to the total time you want the transition state
  to persist if we surpass the `busyDelayMs` time.

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

<div>
<span>After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then </span>
<a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Suspense%20%F0%9F%94%80&e=03%3A%20useTransition%20for%20improved%20loading%20states&em=">
  fill out the elaboration and feedback form.
</a>
</div>
