# Cache resources

## Background

State that comes from the server is basically a cache of state. It's not UI
state. How long that cache sticks around is totally up to you. Right now, our
cache only hangs around until we select a new resource, but we could persist it
in memory somewhere and retrieve it later if needed.

Remember that caches are among the hardest problems in computer science. If
you're not careful, you can run into stale data bugs and memory leaks. But let's
experiment with it here and see if we can improve the user experience.

### Promises in render

💰 here's a quick tip. Creating a new promise in the render method is dangerous
because you cannot rely on your render method only being called once, so you
have to do things carefully by using a promise cache. Here's an example of what
I mean:

```javascript
const promiseCache = {}
function MySuspendingComponent({value}) {
  let resource = promiseCache[value]
  if (!resource) {
    resource = doAsyncThing(value)
    promiseCache[value] = resource // <-- this is very important
  }
  return <div>{resource.read()}</div>
}
```

You'll be doing something similar for this exercise.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/04.js)
- [Final](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.js)

If you select a pokemon, then choose another, and then go back to the pokemon
you selected the first time, you'll notice that you're loading that first
pokemon twice, even though the data hasn't changed. That data is unlikely to
ever change, so we could improve the user experience considerably by caching the
data so it's available for the next time the user wants to look at that pokemon.

For the cache object, the key will be the pokemon name, and the cache value will
be the resource object.

## Extra Credit

🦉 These extra credits attempt to show you a more real-world scenario where a
resource cache would be helpful. Remember that caching is a really hard problem
generally and patterns for caching resources haven't been very well established
at the moment. This is more of an exploration to get you thinking, not a
recommended approach. In real apps, you'll likely be using a robust abstraction
for caching. A good one to try out is
[react-query](https://github.com/tannerlinsley/react-query).

### 1. 💯 put cache in context

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-1.js)

Storing a cache as an object in a module is not exactly idiomatic React, but it
is an effective mechanism for caching if you don't care about invalidating the
cache. If you want to invalidate the cache in a reliable way, then you'll want
to have access to the React lifecycle.

In this extra credit, let's start moving this cache (more specifically the
`getPokemonResource` function) into context and use `React.useContext` to get
the function. This extra credit is simpler than you might think. You can simply
pass the `getPokemonResource` as the `defaultValue` for your
[`React.createContext`](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html#reactcreatecontext)
call. Then retrieve that function from `useContext`.

### 2. 💯 create a context provider

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-2.js)

Rather than just having an object living forever in memory, let's put the
context in a component as a `useRef` so the object is tied to that component. To
do this, we'll also have to move the `getPokemonResource` function to the
component and render it as the value to the provider. Don't forget to memoize it
with `useCallback` so it's stable between re-renders.

💰 I call the component you'll create `PokemonCacheProvider`.

💰 Because the `App` component needs to consume this value, you'll need to wrap
the `App` component in the `PokemonCacheProvider`. I do this by making a
`AppWithProvider` component:

```javascript
function AppWithProvider() {
  return (
    <PokemonCacheProvider>
      <App />
    </PokemonCacheProvider>
  )
}
```

### 3. 💯 add cache timeout

[Production deploy](https://react-suspense.netlify.app/isolated/final/04.extra-3.js)

Great, now let's free up some memory over time. Make the `PokemonCacheProvider`
accept a `cacheTime` prop so it's configurable (go ahead and set it to `5000`).
Then figure out a good way to clear items in the cache when they've been around
for longer than the cache time.

You'll know you've got it right when you can select a pokemon, then go to
another one and wait for 5 seconds and returning to the first one triggers a
refetch (because the pokemon is no longer in the cache).

🦉 There are several ways to do this. All of them come with trade-offs. Feel
free to implement it however you like.

## 🦉 Elaboration and Feedback

<div>
<span>After the instruction, if you want to remember what you've just learned, then </span>
<a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Suspense%20%F0%9F%94%80&e=04%3A%20Cache%20resources&em=">
  fill out the elaboration and feedback form.
</a>
</div>
