# Coordinate Suspending components with SuspenseList

## Background

When your app is simple, you can pretty much expect everything to be there and
load together when you need them, and that works nicely. But when your app grows
and you start code splitting and loading data alongside the code that needs it,
pretty soon you end up in situations where you have several things loading all
at once. Having those all pop into place on the page can be a jarring experience
for the user.

A better experience for the user is a more predictable loading experience, even
if it means that they see the data displayed out of order from how it was
loaded.

Coordinating these loading states is a really hard problem, but thanks to
Suspense and `<React.SuspenseList />`, it's fairly trivial.

📜 Example from the React docs:
https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-reference.html#suspenselist

```jsx
<SuspenseList revealOrder="forwards">
  <Suspense fallback={'Loading...'}>
    <ProfilePicture id={1} />
  </Suspense>
  <Suspense fallback={'Loading...'}>
    <ProfilePicture id={2} />
  </Suspense>
  <Suspense fallback={'Loading...'}>
    <ProfilePicture id={3} />
  </Suspense>
</SuspenseList>
```

The `SuspenseList` component has the following props:

- `revealOrder`: the order in which the suspending components are to render
  - `{undefined}`: the default behavior: everything pops in when it's loaded (as
    if you didn't wrap everything in a `SuspenseList`).
  - `"forwards"`: Only show the component when all components before it have
    finished suspending.
  - `"backwards"`: Only show the component when all the components after it have
    finished suspending.
  - `"together"`: Don't show any of the components until they've all finished
    loading
- `tail`: determines how to show the fallbacks for the suspending components
  - `{undefined}`: the default behavior: show all fallbacks
  - `"collapsed"`: Only show the fallback for the component that should be
    rendered next (this will differ based on the `revealOrder` specified).
  - `"hidden"`: Opposite of the default behavior: show none of the fallbacks
- `children`: other react elements which render `<React.Suspense />` components.
  Note: `<React.Suspense />` components do not have to be direct children as in
  the example above. You can wrap them in `<div />`s or other components if you
  need.

## Exercise

In this exercise, we've built Pokemon Banking app and because the app is getting
so large and there's so many dynamic parts, we've decided to codesplit a lot of
it, this makes our app load faster, but it makes the loading experience
sub-optimal.

Let's play around with `<React.SuspenseList />` to coordiante the loading
states.

💰 tip, you can nest Suspense lists! Give that a try.

## Extra Credit

### 💯 eagerly load modules as resources

You may have noticed that the page actually loads slower when you added the
SuspenseList. Even though it's less janky. The reason for this is because
SuspenseList will avoid rendering children of Suspense Boundaries when using
`forwards` until the "most forward" component is rendered. This results in a
waterfall effect because `React.lazy` is not "eager." The idiomatic use of
`React.lazy` is a perfect example of "fetch on render."

Hopefully the React team comes out with something better before SuspenseList is
stable (stay up-to-date with https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/17413),
but for now, we need to preload our modules as soon as we know we're going to
need them.

I've written a handy function that you can use in place of `React.lazy` that
allows you to do this:

```javascript
function preloadableLazy(dynamicImport) {
  let promise
  function load() {
    if (!promise) {
      promise = dynamicImport()
    }
    return promise
  }
  const Comp = React.lazy(load)
  Comp.preload = load
  return Comp
}
// Usage:
// const LazyComp = preloadableLazy(() => import('./lazy-loaded-component'))
// then, when you need to preload the code: LazyComp.preload()
```

With this, see if you can change the implementation to make use of the
SuspenseList for coordinating suspending components without the drawback of
"fetch on render" with `React.lazy`.
