# Cache resources

## Background

State that comes from the server is basically a cache of state. It's not UI
state. How long that cache sticks around is totally up to you. Right now, our
cache only hangs around until we select a new resource, but we could persist it
in memory somewhere and retrieve it later if needed.

Remember that caches are among the hardest problems in computer science. If
you're not careful, you can run into stale data bugs and memory leaks. But let's
experiment with it here and see if we can improve the user experience.

### Promises in render

💰 here's a quick tip. Creating a new promise in the render method is dangerous
because you cannot rely on your render method only being called once, so you
have to do things carefully by using a promise cache. Here's an example of what
I mean:

```javascript
const promiseCache = {}
function MySuspendingComponent({value}) {
  let resource = promiseCache[value]
  if (!resource) {
    resource = doAsyncThing(value)
    promiseCache[value] = resource // <-- this is very important
  }
  return <div>{resource.read()}</div>
}
```

You'll be doing something similar for this exercise.

## Exercise

If you select a pokemon, then choose another, and then go back to the pokemon
you selected the first time, you'll notice that you're loading that first
pokemon twice, even though the data hasn't changed. That data is unlikely to
ever change, so we could improve the user experience considerably by caching the
data so it's available for the next time the user wants to look at that pokemon.

In this exercise, our cache will function very similar to the image cache we had
in the last exercise. The cache key will be the pokemon name, and the cache
value will be the resource object.
