# Cache resources

## Background

State that comes from the server is basically a cache of state. It's not UI
state. How long that cache sticks around is totally up to you. Right now, our
cache only hangs around until we select a new resource, but we could persist it
in memory somewhere and retrieve it later if needed.

Remember that caches are among the hardest problems in computer science. If
you're not careful, you can run into stale data bugs and memory leaks. But let's
experiment with it here and see if we can improve the user experience.

## Exercise

If you select a pokemon, then choose another, and then go back to the pokemon
you selected the first time, you'll notice that you're loading that first
pokemon twice, even though the data hasn't changed. That data is unlikely to
ever change, so we could improve the user experience considerably by caching the
data so it's available for the next time the user wants to look at that pokemon.

In this exercise, our cache will function very similar to the image cache we had
in the last exercise. The cache key will be the pokemon name, and the cache
value will be the resource object.

## Extra Credit

### 💯 Cache in Context

Right now we're prop drilling, but what if we wanted to access our pokemon
resource somewhere else in our component tree. This extra credit is just to
demonstrate that you can place resources and other information into context so
components further down in the tree can access them without having to pass props
around.

See if you can get the following information into and out of context:
pokemonResource, isPending, and pokemonName.

Tip: In my solution, I render a context provider in the App component.
